## Recommendation Project based on Ratings of Products
This notebook is about recommendation of products, which can be used for giving recommendation for a customer. The data is from an given dataset accessed through Skillfull.

# Background
A recommendation project is a recommendation that give top product for every customer which allows to be considered for buying. A recommendation of every customer have an important role to describe product ratings, a potential bought that usually characterized by ratings. It becomes important to know the best product to be recommended in order to make sure your fundings are both effective and appropriate (non-offensive, timely, and relevant). A recommendation product is using a historical data technique. Based on customers' historical payments, recommendation system focuses on 3 main aspects of customers' historical payments reports that are
1. Customer id
2. Product id 
3. Ratings

Understanding these reports will allow product to be recommended.

Problem Identification
1. Problem Definitions
Customers registering accomplish a goal. The goal can be simple (for example getting a buyer) or complex (such as more buying than before). Goals manifest themselves through user behavior, include purchases. However, there are some customers that make bad searching for purchasing such as a negative sentiment. At the most granular level, user behavior manifests itself as search queries and interactions.

Based on the problem, we have to create recommendation system based on data that we haven't yet calculated the value, to make the data analysis clear we need to further analyze the recommendation value and divide the products into recommended based on higher ordered.

2. Business Objectives
Based on the exsisting dataset, we found that we can use recommendation system for development of product likeliness that can find out the quality of each products. The recommendation system that will be generated by this project will later be able to help teams to implement recommendation strategies for each customer. The expectation in this machine learning project is to create an algorithm based on payments analytic for recommendation system so that it can help to know the qualities of products. The main goal of this project is to help meet the expectations of the algorithm to be created for the recommendation of each customer' likeliness through the following objectives:

◉ Recommendation system based on their preferences so that they are divided into several products based on preference Analytics.

◉ Find out the defining preference product for each customer.

With these two objectives, it can help marketing analyst team in deciding recommendation strategies based on the type or ratings of each products that we formed.

3. Data Requirements
I want to get our recommendation' system by rating analytics and find out the defining level of each product to be recommended, so we need to determine the recommendation system value to make the decision.

4. Analytic Approach
a. Domain Knowledge Techniques
After determine the rating for each existing product, I create the system based on quantile value of ratings's products.

b. Machine Learning Techniques
I use SVD method after determine the rating products from each existing customer, then we apply recommendation system. For comparison we also use other recommendation methods include Base Line Only, but the SVD have the lowest error which are under 1% respectively. Each of score will represent how accurate recommendation system based on rating analytics.

b. Risk
Because recommendation system is usually used to do selecting products, the risk of falsely forecasting the products score are: - Loss of unrecommended products - Innacurate target produts - Irrelevant recommendation system

The aftermath false targeted purchasing, is that future increase in sales is lost.

c. Performance Measure
The performance measures used to evaluate the ML model are Means Square Error and Root Means Square Error.

5. Action
The marketing analyst user can use the forecasting result to further understand the customers, and to do better recommend to the customers so that we can increase revenue.

6. Value
This project will save some funding costs because now the marketing analyst user is able to selecting only certain groups of products that have the highest chance of sell, rather than showing to all products that may not be interested in the market at all. This can also increase customer engagement rate because each customer can feel the quality from the business.

Data Understanding and Data Preparation
We started by importing the needed dataset from csv into Jupyter Notebook. Then we analyzed each columns, clean features where needed, and find outliers to a more usable format as products' performance matriks. After that we calculate the recommendation based on the similary of product values that the rating is already defined by the customers. 

Modeling
I am using SVD for the model because this is one of the most well-known models for forecasting, and it is also relatively low-cost in regards to computational power. SVD is one of the recommendation algorithms based on actual ratings. After determine the score value we began the modeling phase. I am using range of the rating from 1 until 5. Then, I am running the model to gain the recommendation.

Conclusion Based on Recommendation System (Analysis Forecasting Notebook)
Because the recommendation system is done to determining how products' behaves, highest score products are the most valuable purchased, contribute the most to monetary value and the products will be shown in the system that ordered by the highest ratings. The thing that really needs to be considered in these high score products is they have high quality, we need to take feedback from them so we know what needs to be improved from our activities.

Our customers mainly come for these segments, which means the high class customers so if we want to increase revenues in our company, we need to do marketing for them, how to make them continue to use our services.

Valuable, loyal & Best customers are important to maintain so we must focus more in our company.

Evaluation
Based on recommendation system using SVM framework, we will use recommendation from the model based on its score, that the highest product has as a maximum score and put in the first output. SVM can forecast more clearly of every recommendation, with minimize error in the score. With this clearly forecasting, our company can analize products more accurate so more get a company profit. Clearly forecasting can be an important thing in relationship purchase, because can increase understanding of customers' necessities.

Badly, using other methods, forecasting is not good as SVM. Using non SVM model, the higher error is still creating inaccurate recommendation. This is make hard to help customers' purchase.

In the meantime, using SVM, there are not meaningful of rating of recommendation that are making hard to understand every products even this model more clearly create recommendation based on every hierarky product value.
